content/posts/2019-02-11-books/index.md, before:

---
title: Book Reviews
slug: books
date: 2020-09-21
language: en
imageTw: ./books-tw.png
imageFb: ./books-fb.png
cover: ./books.jpg
generate-card: true
tags:
  - reading
  - books
  - self-development
---

This week I was thinking that it would be fun to have a place to share my book reviews for the books I have completed this year. But here's the catch: _there will be a limitation of three sentences_.

## Books I Have Read In 2020

### Essentialism: The Disciplined Pursuit of Less

![Essentialism](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1387736173l/19776547.jpg)

McKeown will guide you in the ways to live the life of one known as an Essentialist. It reminds us that only a few things matter and to focus our limited energy on those things that bring the highest contribution. "Less but Better" will be your new anthem in a world that keeps telling us that we can do it all.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/Essentialism-Disciplined-Pursuit-Greg-McKeown-ebook/dp/B00G1J1D28)

### The Road Back to You: An Enneagram Journey to Self-Discovery

![The Road Back to You](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1466942357l/30753888._SY475_.jpg)

As a fan of the Myers Briggs personality test, this book exposes the reader to the ancient personality test known as the Enneagram which encompasses the Nine personality types. I have learned that I am a Number 4 (Romantic) and have learned some strategies on how to work on my weaknesses and understand my motivations and fears. It was fun to learn about the other personality types from the Enneagram and understand what drives them and best approaches to engage them.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0830846190/ref=cm_sw_em_r_mt_dp_SowqFbNS4WRXW )



### 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos

![12 Rules For Life](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1509468449l/33792742._SY475_.jpg)

As one of my favorite philosophers and intellectuals of 2019, I am drawn to Jordan's podcast and Youtube videos. You will learn how to live a life worth living, the rules which to play the game by. You will not want to miss this one.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/B01FPGY5T0/ref=cm_sw_em_r_mt_dp_5DOqFbFVYQ752)



## Books I Have Read In 2019


## Never Split the Difference

![Never Split the Difference book cover](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1458427910l/29555865._SY475_.jpg)

Learn how to negotiate any situation from an FBI hostage negotiator. Each chapter is filled with gripping stories from Chris's work in the field and gives you tactical advice on the art and science of negotiation. This book breaks down the theory and tools that can help you in negotiating a salary, purchasing a car, or working out some problems at home.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/Never-Split-Difference-Negotiating-Depended-ebook/dp/B014DUR7L2/ref=sr_1_1?keywords=chris+voss&qid=1549924450&s=gateway&sr=8-1)

## When Breath Becomes Air

![When Breath Becomes Air book cover](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1492677644l/25899336.jpg)

A neurosurgeon with a brilliant future finds out he has terminal cancer in his thirties. In this unfinished memoir, he must find out what is truly important in life while facing death. This book is gut-wrenching, thought-provoking, and teaches us about how to live.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/When-Breath-Becomes-Paul-Kalanithi-ebook/dp/B00XSSYR50/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1551121182&sr=8-1&keywords=when+breath+becomes+air)

## Atomic Habits

![Atomic Habits book cover](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1535115320l/40121378._SY475_.jpg)

Learn how to hack habits so you they work for you and not against you. James shows us how habits are built and how they can be reversed engineered to eliminate them too. Must read if you want to read how to build good habits by learning the habit system complete with lots of practical examples.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/B01N5AX61W?pf_rd_p=183f5289-9dc0-416f-942e-e8f213ef368b&pf_rd_r=E6FRP7J9DGN71C3X31H6)

## Digital Minimalism: Choosing a Focused Life in a Noisy World

![Digital Minimalism book cover](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1549433350l/40672036._SY475_.jpg)

I have been a fan of Cal Newport's work since I read **Deep Work** last year. Cal goes deeper into how to live a simpler, more meaningful life and not letting technology control us. This was a tough one for me to implement since it meant I had to cut my addiction to tech and just look up to really experience life.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/Digital-Minimalism-Choosing-Focused-Noisy-ebook/dp/B07DBRBP7G/ref=sr_1_1)

Commit message:

adds book review for Mindset

content/posts/2019-02-11-books/index.md, after:

---
title: Book Reviews
slug: books
date: 2020-09-25
language: en
imageTw: ./books-tw.png
imageFb: ./books-fb.png
cover: ./books.jpg
generate-card: true
tags:
  - reading
  - books
  - self-development
---

This week I was thinking that it would be fun to have a place to share my book reviews for the books I have completed this year. But here's the catch: _there will be a limitation of three sentences_.

## Books I Have Read In 2020

### Mindset: The New Psychology Of Success

![mindset cover](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1504769765l/5494321._SY475_.jpg)

Dweck will convince you to change your fixed mindset to a growth mindset and it will change your outlook on life in an incredible way. Failure doesn’t define you, it’s a problem to be faced, dealt with, and learned from. You will learn from examples in sports, business, education, and from her experience at Colombia on how the growth mindset can change how you deal with everyday challenges in a positive and life changing way.

### Essentialism: The Disciplined Pursuit of Less

![Essentialism cover](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1387736173l/19776547.jpg)

McKeown will guide you in the ways to live the life of one known as an Essentialist. It reminds us that only a few things matter and to focus our limited energy on those things that bring the highest contribution. "Less but Better" will be your new anthem in a world that keeps telling us that we can do it all.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/Essentialism-Disciplined-Pursuit-Greg-McKeown-ebook/dp/B00G1J1D28)

### The Road Back to You: An Enneagram Journey to Self-Discovery

![The Road Back to You](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1466942357l/30753888._SY475_.jpg)

As a fan of the Myers Briggs personality test, this book exposes the reader to the ancient personality test known as the Enneagram which encompasses the Nine personality types. I have learned that I am a Number 4 (Romantic) and have learned some strategies on how to work on my weaknesses and understand my motivations and fears. It was fun to learn about the other personality types from the Enneagram and understand what drives them and best approaches to engage them.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/0830846190/ref=cm_sw_em_r_mt_dp_SowqFbNS4WRXW )



### 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos

![12 Rules For Life](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1509468449l/33792742._SY475_.jpg)

As one of my favorite philosophers and intellectuals of 2019, I am drawn to Jordan's podcast and Youtube videos. You will learn how to live a life worth living, the rules which to play the game by. You will not want to miss this one.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/B01FPGY5T0/ref=cm_sw_em_r_mt_dp_5DOqFbFVYQ752)



## Books I Have Read In 2019


## Never Split the Difference

![Never Split the Difference book cover](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1458427910l/29555865._SY475_.jpg)

Learn how to negotiate any situation from an FBI hostage negotiator. Each chapter is filled with gripping stories from Chris's work in the field and gives you tactical advice on the art and science of negotiation. This book breaks down the theory and tools that can help you in negotiating a salary, purchasing a car, or working out some problems at home.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/Never-Split-Difference-Negotiating-Depended-ebook/dp/B014DUR7L2/ref=sr_1_1?keywords=chris+voss&qid=1549924450&s=gateway&sr=8-1)

## When Breath Becomes Air

![When Breath Becomes Air book cover](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1492677644l/25899336.jpg)

A neurosurgeon with a brilliant future finds out he has terminal cancer in his thirties. In this unfinished memoir, he must find out what is truly important in life while facing death. This book is gut-wrenching, thought-provoking, and teaches us about how to live.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/When-Breath-Becomes-Paul-Kalanithi-ebook/dp/B00XSSYR50/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1551121182&sr=8-1&keywords=when+breath+becomes+air)

## Atomic Habits

![Atomic Habits book cover](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1535115320l/40121378._SY475_.jpg)

Learn how to hack habits so you they work for you and not against you. James shows us how habits are built and how they can be reversed engineered to eliminate them too. Must read if you want to read how to build good habits by learning the habit system complete with lots of practical examples.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/B01N5AX61W?pf_rd_p=183f5289-9dc0-416f-942e-e8f213ef368b&pf_rd_r=E6FRP7J9DGN71C3X31H6)

## Digital Minimalism: Choosing a Focused Life in a Noisy World

![Digital Minimalism book cover](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1549433350l/40672036._SY475_.jpg)

I have been a fan of Cal Newport's work since I read **Deep Work** last year. Cal goes deeper into how to live a simpler, more meaningful life and not letting technology control us. This was a tough one for me to implement since it meant I had to cut my addiction to tech and just look up to really experience life.

[Amazon Link](https://smile.amazon.com/Digital-Minimalism-Choosing-Focused-Noisy-ebook/dp/B07DBRBP7G/ref=sr_1_1)
