content/pages/portfolio/index.md, before:

---
title: "Portfolio"
slug: portfolio
cover: ./portfolio.jpg
date: 2018-12-11
disqus: false
type: page
---

## Catch of the Day

![cotd](./cotd.png)

Real-time web application for a fictional trendy seafood market where price and quantity available can change at a moment's notice. Includes a build a menu, an order form, and an inventory management area where authorized users can immediately update product details. Built with React, ES6, React Router 4, and Firebase.

[View Github][cotd-gh]

## David Portillo Tenor

![david portillo tenor](./portillo.jpg)

Client work for opera singer David Portillo. Web Design and development that includes a calendar of upcoming perfomances, media gallery, acclaims, and biography pages. Built with Jekyll and hosted on Github.

[View Github][david-portillo-gh] <br/>
[View Live][david-portillo-live]

## Sean Dorr Portfolio

![sean dorr](./seandorr.jpg)

Client work for graphic artist and designer Sean Dorr's portfolio website. Web Design and Development. Built with Jekyll and hosted on Github.

[View Github][sean-dorr-gh] <br/>
[View Live][sean-dorr-live]

## Community Helpers

![community helpers](./comm_helpers.jpg)

Web application that connects seniors that need work done around their home and the youth that want to earn some extra money. Built using Laravel, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, and Twitter Bootstrap. Development done in a Vagrant environment. Version control using Git and GitHub. Features a helper/giver dashboard, a job listing for helpers to apply to, and giving the power to the giver to select a helper based on their jobs completed and reviews.

[View Github][community-helpers-gh] <br/>

## Todo List

![todo list](./todo.jpg)

The application was built using PHP, MySQL, HTML and CSS and it allows for adding new items, removing completed items, and uploading a todo list.

[View Github][todo-gh]

## Address Book

![address book](./address.jpg)

The application was built using PHP, MySQL, HTML and CSS and it allows for adding new addresses, removing completed addresses, and uploading an exisiting address book.

[View Github][address-book-gh]

## Whack-A-Mole

![whack a mole](./whack_a_mole.jpg)

First-person video game based on the classic whack-a-mole game. The game randomly has moles pop out of holes and the object of the game is to hit the moles and have them go back in their hole. The application features the ability to keep score, maintain a high-score, and a countdown timer. Written in PHP, JavaScript, and jQuery.

[View Github][whack-a-mole-gh]

## High Low game

![code](./code.jpg)

The game picks a random number between 1 and 100. It prompts the user to take a guess and outputs higher, lower, or good guess. Written in PHP.

[View Github][highlow-gh]

## Fizz Buzz

![code](./code.jpg)

The application prints the numbers from 1 to 100. But for multiples of three print “Fizz” instead of the number and for the multiples of five print “Buzz”. For numbers which are multiples of both three and five print “FizzBuzz”. Written in PHP.

[View Github][fizzbuzz-gh]

## CS Classwork

![Regis CS Work](./regis.jpg)

Check out my project exercises for the Computer Science courses I completed at Regis University. Written in C++.

[View Github][cs-gh]

[cotd-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeonjr/reactForBeginners
[cotd]: http://catch-of-the-day.pigeontec.com
[david-portillo-gh]: https://github.com/davidportillo/tenorwebsite
[david-portillo-live]: http://davidportillotenor.com/
[sean-dorr-gh]: https://github.com/seandorr/designer-portfolio
[sean-dorr-live]: http://seandorr.com/
[community-helpers-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/blog.dev
[community-helpers-live]: http://community-helpers.com/
[todo-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/Web_Todo_List
[address-book-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/Codeup_Web_Exercises/blob/master/public/address_book.php
[whack-a-mole-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/Codeup_Web_Exercises/blob/master/public/whack.html
[highlow-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/High_Low
[fizzbuzz-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/CodeUp_Exercises/blob/master/fizzbuzz.php
[cs-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/Regis-University-CS-classwork

Commit message:

adds MedCoE to the portfolio page

content/pages/portfolio/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Portfolio'
slug: portfolio
cover: ./portfolio.jpg
date: 2019-09-16
disqus: false
type: page
---

## U.S Army Medical Center of Excellence

![MedCoE](./medcoe.jpg)

Redesigned the MedCoE public page using the [United States Web Design System (USWDS)](https://designsystem.digital.gov/). The website was the winner an [Web Award for web development](http://www.webaward.org/winner/35327/pigeon-frank-s-jr--verastigui-hector-a-young-stephanie-a-bailey-james-e-cardwell-loretta-b-castillo-paul-engler-timothy-l-gilbert-nancy-j-fox-matthew-d-wins-2019-webaward-for-army-medical-department-center--school-hrcoe.html). Built with .NET and the USWDS.

[View Live][medcoe]

## Catch of the Day

![cotd](./cotd.png)

Real-time web application for a fictional trendy seafood market where price and quantity available can change at a moment's notice. Includes a build a menu, an order form, and an inventory management area where authorized users can immediately update product details. Built with React, ES6, React Router 4, and Firebase.

[View Github][cotd-gh]

## David Portillo Tenor

![david portillo tenor](./portillo.jpg)

Client work for opera singer David Portillo. Web Design and development that includes a calendar of upcoming perfomances, media gallery, acclaims, and biography pages. Built with Jekyll and hosted on Github.

[View Github][david-portillo-gh] <br/>
[View Live][david-portillo-live]

## Sean Dorr Portfolio

![sean dorr](./seandorr.jpg)

Client work for graphic artist and designer Sean Dorr's portfolio website. Web Design and Development. Built with Jekyll and hosted on Github.

[View Github][sean-dorr-gh] <br/>
[View Live][sean-dorr-live]

## Community Helpers

![community helpers](./comm_helpers.jpg)

Web application that connects seniors that need work done around their home and the youth that want to earn some extra money. Built using Laravel, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, and Twitter Bootstrap. Development done in a Vagrant environment. Version control using Git and GitHub. Features a helper/giver dashboard, a job listing for helpers to apply to, and giving the power to the giver to select a helper based on their jobs completed and reviews.

[View Github][community-helpers-gh] <br/>

## Todo List

![todo list](./todo.jpg)

The application was built using PHP, MySQL, HTML and CSS and it allows for adding new items, removing completed items, and uploading a todo list.

[View Github][todo-gh]

## Address Book

![address book](./address.jpg)

The application was built using PHP, MySQL, HTML and CSS and it allows for adding new addresses, removing completed addresses, and uploading an exisiting address book.

[View Github][address-book-gh]

## Whack-A-Mole

![whack a mole](./whack_a_mole.jpg)

First-person video game based on the classic whack-a-mole game. The game randomly has moles pop out of holes and the object of the game is to hit the moles and have them go back in their hole. The application features the ability to keep score, maintain a high-score, and a countdown timer. Written in PHP, JavaScript, and jQuery.

[View Github][whack-a-mole-gh]

## High Low game

![code](./code.jpg)

The game picks a random number between 1 and 100. It prompts the user to take a guess and outputs higher, lower, or good guess. Written in PHP.

[View Github][highlow-gh]

## Fizz Buzz

![code](./code.jpg)

The application prints the numbers from 1 to 100. But for multiples of three print “Fizz” instead of the number and for the multiples of five print “Buzz”. For numbers which are multiples of both three and five print “FizzBuzz”. Written in PHP.

[View Github][fizzbuzz-gh]

## CS Classwork

![Regis CS Work](./regis.jpg)

Check out my project exercises for the Computer Science courses I completed at Regis University. Written in C++.

[View Github][cs-gh]

[cotd-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeonjr/reactForBeginners
[cotd]: http://catch-of-the-day.pigeontec.com
[david-portillo-gh]: https://github.com/davidportillo/tenorwebsite
[david-portillo-live]: http://davidportillotenor.com/
[sean-dorr-gh]: https://github.com/seandorr/designer-portfolio
[sean-dorr-live]: http://seandorr.com/
[community-helpers-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/blog.dev
[community-helpers-live]: http://community-helpers.com/
[todo-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/Web_Todo_List
[address-book-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/Codeup_Web_Exercises/blob/master/public/address_book.php
[whack-a-mole-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/Codeup_Web_Exercises/blob/master/public/whack.html
[highlow-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/High_Low
[fizzbuzz-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/CodeUp_Exercises/blob/master/fizzbuzz.php
[cs-gh]: https://github.com/fpigeon/Regis-University-CS-classwork
[medcoe]: https://www.cs.amedd.army.mil
